How to write blog posts for Strimzi blog (#247)
strimzi/strimzi.github.io: _posts/2021-07-28-how-to-write-blog-posts-for-strimzi-blog.md

---
layout: post
title:  "How to contribute blog posts for Strimzi blog"
date: 2021-07-28
author: jakub_scholz
---

Most of the posts on the Strimzi blog are written by Strimzi maintainers or regular contributors.
But there is no rule preventing anyone else from writing and contributing blog posts.
In fact, we are more than happy to publish your blog posts here.
If you are interested in contributing a blog post, you can read more about how to do it ... in this blog post!

<!--more-->

## What topics to write about

So, what can you write about?
Of course, most readers of the Strimzi blog are interested in Strimzi and Apache Kafka.

> So that should be one of the main topics of the blog post.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So that should be one of the main considerations of your blog post.
```

> But there are plenty of things to write about.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
But there are plenty of things that might cover.
```

For example:

* Your experience running Strimzi

>     * How did you configured it in your environment

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * How you configured it in your environment
```

>     * How does your architecture look like

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * What your architecture looks like
```

>     * How you made Strimzi and Apache Kafka work well for your use-case

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * How you made Strimzi and Apache Kafka work well for your use case
```

>     * How do you make Strimzi and Apache Kafka work well for your use-case

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * How you made Strimzi and Apache Kafka work well for your use-case
```

    * Strimzi and IoT or Edge computing

> * Tuning Strimzi configuration for different use-cases

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Tuning Strimzi configuration for different use cases
```

* Running Strimzi on different infrastructure

>     * Integration with different public or private clouds

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * Integration with public or private clouds
```

    * Using bare-metal infrastructure
    * Using Strimzi on top of different Kubernetes distributions
* Integration with other projects and tools

>     * Using Strimzi with different OAuth authorization servers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * Using Strimzi with OAuth authorization servers
```

    * How to connect to Strimzi from other applications
    * How to configure different connectors
    * Which UIs to use with Strimzi based Apache Kafka clusters
    * Use of Open Policy Agent policies for authorization in Strimzi

> * Deep dives into Strimzi / Apache Kafka features

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Deep dives into Strimzi or Apache Kafka features
```

* Other Strimzi sub-projects such as Kafka Bridge or our configuration providers

> * Tutorials and how to guides about different types of contributions (such as this blog post 😉)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Tutorials and how-to guides about contributing (such as this blog post 😉)
```

I'm sure you will be able to come up with many other topics which will be interesting for Strimzi users.
You can also browse through the [older blog posts](https://strimzi.io/blog/) to find some inspiration and examples.

> While in Strimzi, we love open-source software, we also understand that not everything is open source.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While we love open-source software at Strimzi, we also understand that not everything is open source.
```

If you want to mention a commercial version of your project or service, it is not necessarily a blocker.
Just keep in mind that the blog post should be also about Strimzi and Apache Kafka and not just a pure self-promotion.

If you are not sure about the topic, you can always get in touch with us first.
You can use the Slack channel, mailing list or DM us on Twitter to discuss the ideas.

> ## How to contribute the blog post

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## How to contribute a blog post
```

Reviewer: This section might be useful in the strimzi blog repo _readme_ or in the contributor guide

The source codes for the Strimzi website - including all blog posts - are on our GitHub in the [`strimzi.github.io` repository](https://github.com/strimzi/strimzi.github.io).

> The actual blog posts can be found in the [`_posts` subdirectory](https://github.com/strimzi/strimzi.github.io/tree/main/_posts) and any images used in the blog posts are in [`assets/images/posts`](https://github.com/strimzi/strimzi.github.io/tree/main/assets/images/posts).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The actual blog posts can be found in the [`_posts` subdirectory](https://github.com/strimzi/strimzi.github.io/tree/main/_posts). Any images used in the blog posts are in [`assets/images/posts`](https://github.com/strimzi/strimzi.github.io/tree/main/assets/images/posts).
```

> Contributing a new blog post is done by opening a PR.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You contribute a blog post by opening a pull request (PR) in the `strimzi.github.io` repository.
```

> If you never used GitHub before or never opened a PR, you can find many different guides on the internet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you never used GitHub before or never opened a PR, you can find lots of guides on the internet.
```

> You can for example follow this [simple guide](https://opensource.com/article/19/7/create-pull-request-github) or read through the [full GitHub documentation](https://docs.github.com/en/github/collaborating-with-pull-requests).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can, for example, follow this [simple guide](https://opensource.com/article/19/7/create-pull-request-github) or read through the [full GitHub documentation](https://docs.github.com/en/github/collaborating-with-pull-requests).
```

![Open PR with blog post](/assets/images/posts/2021-07-28-blog-post-pr.png)

The blog posts are written in Markdown.

> [Markdown](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Markdown) is a very simple language for creating formatted text without any special editor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Markdown](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Markdown) is a very simple language for creating formatted text without a special editor.
```

> You write the blog post in any text editor - Vim, Emacs, Visual Studio Code, Eclipse etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can write the blog post in any text editor, such as Vim, Emacs, Visual Studio Code, and Eclipse.
```

To write the blog post in Markdown, you will only need to learn some basic syntax about headers, bold or italic fonts and code formatting.

> You can find all of that in this [GitHub guide](https://guides.github.com/features/mastering-markdown/) .

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find the style conventions in the [GitHub guide](https://guides.github.com/features/mastering-markdown/) .
```

To start a new blog post, just create a new file in the `_posts` subdirectory and name it `<date>-<title>.md`.
For the date, you can use the current date.
After your blog post is reviewed and approved, we will change it to the actual publishing date when merging the PR.
For the title, you can use the title of your blog post in lowercase and with spaces replaced with `-`.
For example `2021-07-28-my-first-blog-post.md`.

Inside the file, there should be a mandatory header with the blog post metadata such as author or title.
The following example shows how the header might look like:

```
---
layout: post
title:  "My first blog post"
date: 2021-07-28
author: arnost_novak
---
```

You should keep the `layout` field always set to `post`.
And use your own values for the `date`, `author` and `title` fields.
The value of the `author` field should link to the _authors list_.

> If it is your first blog post for the Strimzi website, you need to add your self to the list of authors first (this should be done in the same PR with the blog post).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If it is your first blog post for the Strimzi website, you need to add your name to the list of authors first. You can do this in the same PR as the blog post.
```

The list is in the [`_data/authors.yml` file](https://github.com/strimzi/strimzi.github.io/blob/main/_data/authors.yml).

> You can add your self together with your social media handles.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can add your name together with your social media handles.
```

For example:

```yaml
arnost_novak:
  name: Arnošt Novák
  twitter: https://twitter.com/my-twitter-handle
```

After the header, you can place the text of your blog post.

> If you want to use any pictures, you can add them to the `assets/images/posts` directory for example in the PNG format and reference them in your text like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to use any images, you can add them to the `assets/images/posts` directory.  Format and reference images in your text like this .png file. 
```

```
![Title of my picture](/assets/images/posts/2021-07-28-my-picture-1.png)

> ```

Reviewer: Standard image file formats are supported, like .png, .gif, and .jpeg.

Once you have the blog post ready, you can open the PR.

> We will normally react to a new PR latest the next day and provide feedback or review comments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We try to pick up new PRs for feedback and review with 24 hours.
```

Once you open the PR, it will also automatically generate a preview of the website with your blog post.

> So you can have a look how will it look like once published and double-check all the formatting, pictures etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So you can see how will it look when published. And you can check all the formatting, image placement, and so on.
```

![Preview of the blog post](/assets/images/posts/2021-07-28-blog-post-preview.png)

Once the reviews are finished and the blog post is approved, we will merge it and it will be automatically published on the website.
As an example, you can check the PR for [this blog post](https://github.com/strimzi/strimzi.github.io/pull/247).

> We will of course also advertise it on our Slack and social media.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will of course also promote it on our Slack channel and social media.
```

## Conclusion

Writing new blog posts for the Strimzi website is really easy.

> So hopefully you already have some idea what to write about and you will open the PR soon.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So hopefully you already have some idea what to write about and you will open a PR soon.
```

> But even if you want to write about Strimzi, but publish the blog post on your own website, please let us know about it and we can share it with our users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
But even if you want to write about Strimzi but publish the blog post on your own website, please let us know about it and we can share it with our users.
```

> If we didn't convinced you to write some blog post, you can still read the blog posts written by others.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If we didn't convince you to write a blog post, you can still read the blog posts written by others.
```
